Type: Two types of wines such as red wine and white wine.


Fixed acidity: Fixed acids include tartaric, malic, citric, and succinic acids which are found in grapes (except succinic)
Acids are one of the fundamental properties of wine and contribute greatly to the taste of the wine, Acidity in food and drink tastes tart and zesty. Tasting acidity is also sometimes confused with alcohol. Wines with higher acidity feel lighter-bodied because they come across as “spritzy”. Reducing acids significantly might lead to wines tasting flat. If you prefer a wine that is richer and rounder, you enjoy slightly less acidity.


Volatile acidity: These acids are to be distilled out from the wine before completing the production process. It is primarily constituted of acetic acid though other acids like lactic, formic and butyric acids might also be present. Excess of volatile acids are undesirable and lead to unpleasant flavour.


Citric acid: This is one of the fixed acids which gives a wine its freshness. Usually most of it is consumed during the fermentation process and sometimes it is added separately to give the wine more freshness.


Residual sugar: This typically refers to the natural sugar from grapes which remains after the fermentation process stops, or is stopped.


Chlorides: Chloride concentration in the wine is influenced by terroir and its highest levels are found in wines coming from countries where irrigation is carried out using salty water or in areas with brackish terrains.


Free sulfur dioxide: This is the part of the sulphur dioxide that when added to a wine is said to be free after the remaining part binds. Winemakers will always try to get the highest proportion of free sulphur to bind. They are also known as sulfites and too much of it is undesirable and gives a pungent odour.


Total sulfur dioxide: This is the sum total of the bound and the free sulfur dioxide. This is mainly added to kill harmful bacteria and preserve quality and freshness. There are usually legal limits for sulfur levels in wines and excess of it can even kill good yeast and give out undesirable odour.


Density: This can be represented as a comparison of the weight of a specific volume of wine to an equivalent volume of water. It is generally used as a measure of the conversion of sugar to alcohol.


pH: Also known as the potential of hydrogen, this is a numeric scale to specify the acidity or basicity the wine. Fixed acidity contributes the most towards the pH of wines. You might know, solutions with a pH less than 7 are acidic, while solutions with a pH greater than 7 are basic. With a pH of 7, pure water is neutral. Most wines have a pH between 2.9 and 3.9 and are therefore acidic.


Sulphates: These are mineral salts containing sulfur. Sulphates are to wine as gluten is to food. They are a regular part of the winemaking around the world and are considered essential. They are connected to the fermentation process and affects the wine aroma and flavour.


Alcohol: It's usually measured in % vol or alcohol by volume (ABV).


Quality: Wine experts graded the wine quality between 0 (very bad) and 10 (very excellent). The eventual quality score is the median of at least three evaluations made by the same wine experts.